=head1 NAME

WWW::Google::Translate - Perl interface for the Google Translate API v2

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use WWW::Google::Translate;

  my $gt = WWW::Google::Translate->new(
      {   key            => '<Your API key here>',
          default_source => 'en',
          default_target => 'ja',
      }
  );

  my $r = $gt->translate( { q => 'My hovercraft is full of eels' } );

  for my $trans_rh (@{ $r->{data}->{translations} }) {

      print $trans_rh->{translatedText}, "\n";
  }

  # Alternatively
  my %q = (
      q      => 'My hovercraft is full of eels',
      source => 'en',
      target => 'ja',
  );
  my $r = $gt->translate( \%q );

  # Detect language
  my %q = (
      q      => 'My hovercraft is full of eels',
  );
  my $r = $gt->detect( \%q );

  my $detect_rh = $r->{data}->{detections}->[0]->[0];

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module provides a convenient interface for using the
Google Translate API v2. For complete information about the Google
Translate API please visit:

http://code.google.com/apis/language/translate/v2/getting_started.html

Important: Google Translate API v2 is now available as a paid service.

To use this module you must obtain an API key from Google and configure your
Google Wallet account to pay for the service. You are subject to the
Google TOS requirements.

=head1 METHODS

=over

=item new

The constructor expects a hash ref with the following parameters:

=over

=item key

Your API key. The key must be configured to be used with the machine you're
running your program on.

=item default_source

This is the source language for any text you'll be submitting with the
translate method. This is optional if you would rather supply the 'source'
parameter to the translate method.

=item default_target

This is the target language for any text you'll be submitting with the
translate method. This is optional if you would rather supply the 'target'
parameter to the translate method.

=item data_format

This is either 'json' or 'perl'. If you indicate 'json' then you'll get the
raw JSON as given by the remote API. Otherwise, the JSON::from_json function
is used to transform the result to a perl data structure. Default is 'perl'.

=item timeout

Use this parameter to control the timeout period given to the underlying
LWP::UserAgent object. Default is 60 seconds.

=item transform_result

There are occasions when the UTF-8 encoding needs to be fixed up. This module
attempt to detect when this is necessary and do the right thing. This option
defaults to on. If you're not happy with the way this is turning out then you
may set this to false.

=item agent

Use this to set the user-agent string used by your program when sending HTTP
requests to the remote API.

=item force_post

The API docs state that 5K is the size limit per translate request. However
the GET method limits the size to 2K. This module will force a POST type
request if the size of your data is more than 2K. However, overvation suggests
that your mileage may vary. If you find you're getting 414 Request-URI Too Large
errors then you can try setting this option to 1.

=back

  my $gt = WWW::Google::Translate->new(
      {   key              => '<Your API key here>',
          default_source   => 'en',
          default_target   => 'ja',
          data_format      => 'perl',
          timeout          => 60,
          transform_result => 1,
          agent            => 'Translate Bot',
          force_post       => 0,
      }
  );

=item detect

Use this to auto-detect the language of a given chunk of text. Expects a
hash ref with a 'q' paramter. Returns the data structure returned from the
remote API.

  my $d_rh        = $wgt->detect( { q => $text } );
  my $language    = $d_rh->{data}->{detections}->[0]->[0]->{language};
  my $is_reliable = $d_rh->{data}->{detections}->[0]->[0]->{isReliable};
  my $confidence  = $d_rh->{data}->{detections}->[0]->[0]->{confidence};

=item translate

Use this to translate a given chunk of text. Expects a hash ref with a 'q'
paramter. You may also supply 'source' and 'target' parameters. Returns the
data structure returned from the remote API.

  my $d_rh = $wgt->translate( { q => $text } );
  $text    = $d_rh->{data}->{translations}->[0]->{translatedText};

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

Google Terms of Service:
http://code.google.com/apis/language/translate/v2/terms.html

Google APIs Console:
https://code.google.com/apis/console/

=head1 AUTHOR

Dylan Doxey, <dylan@cpan.org>

The author of this module is not affiliated with Google. The author of
this module assumes no responsibility for activities of the users.


=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2011 by Dylan Doxey

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.12.4 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
